---
layout: page
pin: true
title:  Solving CHCs over ADTs and RDFs
date:   2021-10-06 00:17:06 -0400
permalink: /racer/
visible: 1
---

# Artifact for *Solving Constrained Horn Clauses modulo Algebraic Data Types and Recursive Functions*

This page describes steps to reproduce empirical results from the paper titled
"Solving Constrained Horn Clauses modulo Algebraic Data Types and Recursive
Functions". The empirical results are presented as Table 1 and Table 2 in
section 8 (page 23) of the paper.

Our algorithm is called **Racer**. In our paper submissions, we called it *ALG*
to respect the double blind review process. Another discrepancy between the
paper and the artifact is that the tool *VeriMAP* in Table 2, is called
*adtrem* in the artifact.

### Our Results
The empirical results are presented as Table 1 and Table 2 in section 8 (page
23) of the paper. Table 1 compares our tool, Racer, with 3 other solvers
(Spacer, Hoice, and Eldarica) on the *rust-horn* benchmark suite. Table 2
compares Racer with 4 other solvers (Spacer, Eldarica, CVC4 and VeriMAP) on the
*leon* benchmark suite.

## Steps to replicate experiment results:

1. Install *docker*

   If you don't already have docker, you will have to setup docker repository and install docker. The instructions can be found at the [docker install page](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/). For your convenience, we have copy pasted all the required commands for Ubuntu here:
   ```
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install \
   apt-transport-https \
     ca-certificates \
     curl \
     gnupg \
     lsb-release
   curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg
   echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
    $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
 ```
   
   If you are on windows or mac, please follow the instruction from the [docker
   install page](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).
   
2. Pull image from docker cloud
    Run `docker pull chcmodadtrdf:latest` to pull the artifact image

3. Run short version of experiment to make sure that everything is working. Use the command   
`docker run --rm -ti chcmodadtrdf:latest /bin/sh /popl22-ae/scripts/test.sh`. This script will run all solvers on all benchmarks for 1 second each. This experiment will take ~30mins and print two tables on the command line.

4. Run full experiment
    * `docker run --rm -ti chcmodadtrdf:latest /bin/sh` to start the docker container
    * `cd /popl22-ae/scripts && ./table1.sh` and `cd /popl22-ae/scripts && ./table2.sh` to replicate the results. The first script should take around 6 hours and the second should take around 8 hours to finish. The scripts will save the output in directories `/popl22-ae/rust-horn-experiment/` and `/popl22-ae/leon-experiment/` respectively. The output of solver *sol* is named *sol-op.txt*. The summary of the results are stored in `/popl22-ae/rust-horn-experiment/table1.txt` and `/popl22-ae/leon-experiment/table2.txt`. 

## Contents of AE:

- The artifact is a container. It contains everything required to replicate our
  experiment results:
  * Executables
  * Source code for Racer in `/popl22-ae/racer`
  * Benchmarks in `/popl22-ae/benchmarks`
  * The following scripts are in the `/popl22-ae/scripts` directory inside the container 
      * table1.sh
      * table2.sh
      * run-racer.sh
      * run-spacer.sh
      * run-eldarica.sh
      * run-cvc4.sh
      * run-adtrem.sh
      * test.sh
      * run-preprocessing.sh

## Running pre-processing on benchmarks

The command `/popl22-ae/scripts/run-preprocessing.sh dir` will run our
preprocessing steps on all `.smt2` files in the directory `dir` and produce
files with `termabs-w-rf` prefix in the same location. As explained in section
8, pre-processing happens in two phases. The first identifies horn clauses that
encode RDFs and creates RDFs for each such horn clause. The second phase does
term abstraction: for each argument of an uninterpreted predicate to which an
RDF can be applied, add an additional argument to the uninterpreted predicate to
store the result of applying the RDF on the argument. The second phase then
modifies horn clauses as necessary to keep track of the new arguments.
  
## Running Racer

The command `/popl22-ae/scripts/run-racer.sh /absolute/path/to/bench.smt2 100`
   will run our tool `Racer` on the benchmark `bench.smt2` with a timeout of
   `100` seconds. The source code is available on
   [github](https://github.com/hgvk94/z3/tree/racer).
   
   Scripts to run other tools are also available in `/popl22-ae/scripts`. 
   
## Running Racer on your own benchmarks
To run Racer on benchmarks not included with the artifact, do

1. Map benchmark directory to a directory inside the docker container
   Run docker with the option `-v /path/to/bench/:/hostBench/` to map the directory `/path/to/bench` in the host machine to `/hostBench` in the docker container. The full command is 
   ```
   docker run -rm -ti -v /path/to/bench/:/hostBench/ chcmodadtrdf:latest /bin/sh
   ```
2. Optionally, run preprocessing from inside docker using the command `/popl22-ae/scripts/run-preprocessing.sh /hostBench`. This will create a new benchmark in the same directory

3. Run Racer using the command `/popl22-ae/scripts/run-racer.sh /hostBench/termabs-w-rf-bench.smt2`

## Looking at our results

All our results are stored in `/popl22-ae/paper-results`. For each experiment, we have results for 2 different timeouts: 100s and 1800s
